PowerBI project

Project 1 Title-Sales Analysis Report

The Objective of the Sales Dashboard / Business Problem

The objective of the report is to analyze and present comprehensive insights into sales, profit, orders, profit margin, and various comparisons. It aims to provide a clear understanding of key performance indicators and trends using Power BI. The report objectives can be summarized as follows:

1.Calculate Total Sales: Calculate and display the total sales value for the selected period, allowing users to understand the overall revenue generated.

2.Calculate Profit: Calculate and visualize the total profit achieved based on the sales data, providing insights into the financial performance.

3.Analyze Orders: Analyze the number of orders placed during the selected period, helping to identify sales patterns and order trends.

4.Calculate Profit Margin: Calculate and visualize the profit margin percentage, enabling users to assess the profitability of products or services.

5.Compare Sales by Product with Previous Year: Compare sales performance for each product between the selected period and the previous year, highlighting growth or decline in sales.

6.Compare Sales by Months with Previous Year: Compare sales performance across different months between the selected period and the previous year, identifying regions with significant changes.

7.Display Top 5 Cities: Present a visualization showcasing the top 5 cities based on sales, allowing users to quickly identify the most lucrative locations.

8.Compare Profit by Channel with Previous Year: Compare profit generated by each channel between the selected period and the previous year, indicating improvements or challenges in profitability.

9.Analyze Sales by Customer and Compare with Previous Year: Analyze sales data by customer, highlighting the performance of individual customers and comparing it to the previous year.

10.Create Slicers for Date, City, Product, and Channel: Enable users to interact with the data by providing slicers for selecting specific dates, cities, products, and channels, allowing for dynamic filtering
and personalized analysis.

  Steps to follow for an end-to-end Power BI Project
  
  1.Gather Data
  
    Collect the necessary data for your project. This could include data from various sources such as databases, spreadsheets, or web services. Ensure the data is accurate and relevant to your objective.
     

  2.Power Querry – Data Extract, Transform & Load
  
    Power Query Editor in Power BI is a powerful tool for data cleaning and transformation. We will use it Clean and transform the data to make it suitable for analysis. This may involve removing duplicates, handling missing values, merging datasets, or creating calculated columns.
    
  3.Create a Date Table
  
    To work with Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) time intelligence functions, there’s a prerequisite model requirement: You must have at least one date table in your model.

  4.Create Data Model in Power BI Desktop
  
    Design and create a data model that represents the relationships between different tables in your data. Establish proper relationships, define keys, and establish hierarchies if needed. This step is crucial for accurate analysis and visualization
    

  5.Develop Reports in Power BI Desktop
  
    Use the Power BI Desktop application to create reports based on your data model. Add visualizations such as charts, tables, and maps to represent the data effectively. Apply filters, slicers, and drill-through functionalities to allow users to interact with the data.

    Create Report Background in PowerPoint
    Create Slicers – Date, City, Product, and Channel
    Create Dax measures
    Create Visuals:
    1.Sales By Product and Comparing it with last year’s Sales.
    
    2.Sales By Month and Comparing it with last year’s Sales.
    
    3.Sales of top 5 Cities
    
    4.Compare Profit by channel with Previous year’s Profit
    
    5.Sales By Customer and Comparing it with last year’s Sales
    
    6.Create Cards for Sales, Profit, Profit Margin & Product Sold
    
    7.Implementing DAX Calculations
    
      We will use Data Analysis Expressions (DAX) to create calculated columns, measures, and calculated tables to perform complex calculations and aggregations. DAX is a powerful formula language that allows you to manipulate data within Power BI.

      

    //Measures Total Sales
      Sales = SUM(Sales_Data[Sales])

    //Measures Previous Year Toal Sales
      Sales PY = CALCULATE([Sales], SAMEPERIODLASTYEAR(DateTable[Date]))

    //Diffrence Between Current Year Sales & Previous Year Sales
      Sales vs PY = [Sales] - [Sales PY]

    //Percentage Increase or Decrease in sales year on year (YOY%)
    
      Sales vs py % = DIVIDE([Sales vs PY],[Sales],0)
      
    >> Products Sold = SUM(Sales_Data[Order Quantity])
    
    >> Profit = SUM(Sales_Data[Profit]) 
    
    >> Profit LY = CALCULATE([Profit], SAMEPERIODLASTYEAR(DateTable[Date]))
    
    >> Pro    fit Vs LY = [Profit]- [Profit LY]
    
    >> Profit vs LY % = [Profit Vs LY]/[Profit]
    
    >> Profit Margin = DIVIDE([Profit],[Sales],0)
    
    >> Total Cost = SUM(Sales_Data[Total Cost]) 
    
    Conclusion of Power BI Sales Dashboard Project
    
    Conclusion for the year 2019:

    1.Sales decreased by more than 10%
    
    2.There is a drop in sales of all the top 7 Products
    
    3.Customers are leading to a drop in sales
    
    4.The profit margin in the Export channel is higher

🚀 About Me
5 years of Industry experience as a data analyst and 2 years as a Data Scientist using Machine Learning algorithms. I have consistently interfaced with SQL, PowerBI and Tableau. I have work experience and extensive knowledge in Python with libraries such as Sklearn, TensorFlow, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, seaborn. Identifying business needs and developing valuable solutions to improve accuracy and process optimization.

Hi, I'm Oyekan
👋

🔗 Links
portfolio linkedin

Other Common Github Profile Sections
👩‍💻 I'm currently working on more SQL projects and Data Science Projects

🧠 I'm doing a Postgraduate program at British Computer Society(BCS)

👯‍♀️ I'm looking to collaborate with other developers

📫 You can reach me on +2348038549476

🛠 Skills
Advanced Excel SQL Tableau PowerBI Python Programming Numpy,pandas,scipy etc...

Installation
Install my-project with npm

  npm install my-project
  cd my-project
Project 2 Title
2.RFM Analysis on Sales Data Sample

Analysis on sales revenue and customer segmentation analysis using RFM in Microsoft SQL Server with Sales sample data originally downloaded from Kaggle.com RFM means Recency,Frequency and Monetary.Highlights of the analysis includes amongst others Data Cleaning,RFM Analysis,Using CASE Statements,Window functions,Group by,order by and Having clause functions.The major Data analysis explored on the dataset include; -Grouping sales by productline, --SALES ACROSS THE YEAR -REASONS WHY THERE WERE LOW SALES IN 2005, -FINDING THE BEST MONTH FOR SALES IN A PARTICULAR YEAR -The product generated the highest sales in November, --The best customer using RFM Analysis, -The products that are most often sold together --Retrieving the productcode for the orders

This dataset was created to explore the SQL Data Analysis of Sales Sample Data downloaded from www.kaggle.com using RFM Analysis

Project 3 Title
3.Cleaning and Exploring SBA Data

Here is an SQL Data Analysis of the USA Small Business Administration(SBA).As part of their Covid-19 relief assistance to small businesses,they offered a paycheck protection program which is a loan they gave out to small businesses to help them pay their workforce.They made some datasets available related to that program which can be downloaded from www.data.sba.gov/dataset/ I will be cleaning and exploring the data to derive meaningful insight in Microsoft SQL Server.

Installation
Install my-project with npm

  npm install my-project
  cd my-project
Project 4 Title
4.Advanced SQL Demo

This SQL project was manually created to explore some of the advanced functions used in SQL.Such functions like Subquery,Creating stored procedures,Creating views Creating triggers,Window functions and Rank functions were used in this project.

Installation
Install my-project with npm

  npm install my-project
  cd my-project
